Feat(FDSS-16): control plane documentation (#881)
mia-platform/documentation: docs/fast_data/runtime_management.mdx

---
id: runtime_management
title: Runtime Management
sidebar_label: Runtime Management
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Runtime Management

> Welcome to Runtime Management - your tool for achieving better control over the Fast Data environment during runtime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Runtime Management is a tool in the Fast Data environment for achieving better control over the Fast Data components during runtime.
```

This platform empowers you to dynamically manage the execution of Fast Data, offering functionalities to pause and resume microservices effortlessly.

> Dive into the world of streamlined runtime control and take charge of your Fast Data deployment with ease.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

## Overview

Runtime Management is specifically designed to facilitate the runtime deployment of Fast Data.
It provides a user-friendly web interface and robust backend functionalities to enhance your control over the Fast Data microservices environment.

With Runtime Management, users gain the ability to govern potentially every aspect of the Fast Data runtime.

> Currently, this powerful mechanism is supported in the Single View Creator, offering more than just the suspension of Single View generation on MongoDB.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::note
Currently, this powerful mechanism is supported only in the Single View Creator, offering more than just the suspension of Single View generation on MongoDB.
:::
```

### Key Features and Benefits

> 

Reviewer: Why should you use the Runtime Management?

Author: Sorry, I can't get what you mean. You're suggesting to change the name from Runtime Management to something else, or that the title of this pharagraph whould be the one you wrote?

Reviewer: You're right, I'm sorry, I didn't explain what I meant here. I would add the answer to this question as the introduction of the paragraph. I would not start with the bullet points but I would add a simple sentence to introduce the benefits that you want to describe

Author: Ok, I refactored the info, removing scenarios that could create confusion and merged the ones that descirbe the same scenario.

- **Flexible Control:** govern the execution of Fast Data microservices with fine-grained control, allowing for strategic management of the runtime environment.

- **Enhanced Performance and Consistency:** utilize Runtime Management to optimize performance and ensure data consistency. 
      For example, start the ingestion of a massive data system into the Fast Data environment. Only after the ingestion process is complete, 
      initiate the processing of updates from the Real Time Updater (and the Single View Trigger Generator if active) to generate Single Views. 
      This sequential approach enhances performance and data consistency.

- **Strategic Ingestion:** achieve better performance and consistency of data by strategically managing the ingestion process, aligning it with the broader data processing pipeline.

> ### Useful Scenarios

Reviewer: I would merge this paragraph with the previous one, trying to better define the use case. Some of the options in this paragraph are similar to each other and some of them can be considered as sub-topic of the topics in the previous paragraph

      Pause real-time processing during large batch ingestion, then resume for a balanced data processing approach.
- **Performance Testing and Simulation:** Simulate different scenarios for performance testing by pausing and resuming microservices.
      Observe system behavior under various conditions to identify bottlenecks and optimize resource allocation.
- **Data Consistency Assurance:** Maintain data consistency by pausing the Single View Creator during critical updates to underlying databases.
      Resume processing after updates to ensure Single Views reflect the most recent and accurate data.
- **Strategic Resource Allocation:** Dynamically allocate resources by pausing and resuming microservices based on workload and resource availability.
      Efficiently utilize computing resources and prioritize critical processes during peak demand.
- **Enhanced System Reliability:** Gracefully handle unexpected situations or system maintenance by pausing specific microservices.
      Resume operations post-maintenance to minimize downtime and enhance overall system reliability.

## What You Can Do

> Explore the capabilities of Runtime Management by executing specific commands tailored to your Fast Data environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At the moment, the following commands can be exploited:
```

- ***Pause***. Temporarily halt the consumption of messages on the Single View Creator microservice, be it from *Projection Changes* or *Single View Trigger* messages,
    so that no aggregation is executed.
    This command is useful when you want to pause the generation of Single Views, for example, during high-load data ingestion.

- ***Resume***. Restart the consumption of *PC* or *sv-trigger* messages by the Single View Creator, bringing Single Views aggregation process back to active operation.

## Up and Running

To ensure a smooth setup and operation of Runtime Management, make sure you've completed the following tasks:

> 1. **Set Up the persistence environment:** ensure that you have configured a persistence environment (e.g., MongoDB) for Runtime Management to store its state.

Reviewer: How can I do it? Is it explained somewhere? If yes can you link it? If no, can you add a paragraph that explains it?

  Make sure that the persistence environment is accessible from the Control Plane application and insert its connection configuration in the Config Map of the Control Plane.

This step alone grants the proper functioning of the frontend and backend of Runtime Management. However, if you want to enable the communication with one or more runtimes of Fast Data, follow the next steps.

2. **Set Up Fast Data Environment in Console:** naturally, you need to have a Fast Data environment in the Console,
  defining all the possible microservices you may need and their runtime configurations. In particular, be sure to set the three environment variables `CONTROL_PLANE_ACTIONS_TOPIC`, `CONTROL_PLANE_KAFKA_GROUP_ID`, and `READ_TOPIC_FROM_BEGINNING` for the Single View Creator, to enable the communication with the Runtime Management. Check the Single View Creator [Environment Variables section](/fast_data/configuration/single_view_creator.md#environment_variables) for further details.

> 3. **Create a Kafka topic:** create a Kafka topic dedicated to receiving action commands.

Reviewer: Which is the recommended name (if any)? Where should it be configured?

>   This ensures seamless communication between Runtime Management and the Fast Data microservices. We suggest using a single partitioned topic.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This ensures seamless communication between Runtime Management and the Fast Data microservices. 
  :::tip
  We suggest using a single-partitioned topic
  :::
```

---
id: runtime_management
title: Runtime Management
sidebar_label: Runtime Management
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# Runtime Management

Welcome to Runtime Management - your tool for achieving better control over the Fast Data environment during runtime.

> This platform empowers you to dynamically manage the execution of Fast Data, offering functionalities to pause and resume microservices effortlessly.

Reviewer 2: I would not use this term, since it's quite misleading

Author: ```suggestion
This component empowers you to dynamically manage the execution of Fast Data, offering functionalities to pause and resume microservices effortlessly.
```

Dive into the world of streamlined runtime control and take charge of your Fast Data deployment with ease.

## Overview

Runtime Management is specifically designed to facilitate the runtime deployment of Fast Data.
It provides a user-friendly web interface and robust backend functionalities to enhance your control over the Fast Data microservices environment.

> With Runtime Management, users gain the ability to govern potentially every aspect of the Fast Data runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With Runtime Management, users gain the ability to govern several different aspects of the Fast Data runtime configuration.
```

Author: Ok for `several different aspects`.

I wouldn't say "Fast Data runtime configuration" though, since it's not the configuration that we can handle with this tool, but quite Fast Data runtime behaviour.

What do you think?

Reviewer: it seems to me like a repetition of the previous paragraph. Either we merge the two or we rephrase one of the two

Author: I have refactor the two pharagraphs. Now it's:

# Runtime Management

Runtime Management is a tool in the Fast Data environment for achieving better control over the Fast Data microservices during runtime.
This component lets you dynamically manage the execution of Fast Data, offering functionalities to pause and resume microservices with few clicks.

To facilitate these operations, it provides a user-friendly web interface and robust backend functionalities.

With Runtime Management, users gain the ability to govern several different aspects of the Fast Data runtime.

:::note
Currently, this mechanism is supported only in the Single View Creator.
:::

The frontend is divided into two sections: a form on the left and a log panel on the right.
The form allows you to specify the details of the command you want to send, while the log panel displays the log of the command sent.

![Control Plane UI](img/runtime_management/runtime_management_initial_screen.png)

<Tabs>

<TabItem value="control-plane-ui-left" label="Left Side" default>

#### Form Section
  - ***Method*:** Choose between `Pause` and `Resume` commands.
  - ***Resource name*:** Enter the name of a specific resource to pause or resume (for example, the name of a Single View).
  - ***Runtime*:** Select a target runtime environment name on which to execute the command.

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="control-plane-ui-right" label="Right Side">

#### Log Panel
  After submitting the form, a Kafka message representing the command is sent to the topic.
  The Monaco editor panel on the right displays the log of the sent command, providing visibility into the executed actions.
  It also shows any possible errors that could arise during the process.

  At the top, two buttons allow you to prettify the text being logged and to clear it.

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Sending a command

> Before you initiate a command using Runtime Management, take a moment to understand the process.
> Sending a command involves a few key steps to ensure precision and effectiveness in controlling your Fast Data runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you initiate a command using Runtime Management, be aware that sending a command involves a few key steps to ensure precision and effectiveness in controlling your Fast Data runtime.
```

1. **Set Up the persistence environment:** ensure that you have configured a persistence environment (e.g., MongoDB) for Runtime Management to store its state.
  Make sure that the persistence environment is accessible from the Control Plane application and insert its connection configuration in the Config Map of the Control Plane.

  :::tip
  You can connect to any MongoDB instance.
  If your are using Mia-Platform Console in PaaS, you can request a MongoDB Database managed by Mia-Platform by opening a proper Service Request.
  Before opening a Service Request, check if a MongoDB Database was already provided for you or your team during Company creation or Project creation phases.
  :::

This step alone grants the proper functioning of the frontend and backend of Runtime Management. However, if you want to enable the communication with one or more runtimes of Fast Data, follow the next steps.

2. **Set Up Fast Data Environment in Console:** naturally, you need to have a Fast Data environment in the Console,
  defining all the possible microservices you may need and their runtime configurations.

>   In particular, be sure to set the three environment variables `CONTROL_PLANE_ACTIONS_TOPIC`, `CONTROL_PLANE_KAFKA_GROUP_ID`, and `READ_TOPIC_FROM_BEGINNING` for the Single View Creator,

Reviewer 3: Also here `READ_TOPIC_FROM_BEGINNING` can be removed
